Passing messages over topics between publishers and subscribers is useful,
but it's not a one size fits all communications solution.
There are times when the request response pattern is useful.
For these types of interactions,
ROS provides what are called services.
Like topics, services allow the passing of messages between nodes.
However, unlike topics, services have no publishers or subscribers.
Instead, nodes interact with services on a one-to-one basis
using request and response messages. Here's an example.
Let's say that the behavior executor node wants to capture an image from the camera.
We could just have it subscribe to the camera images topic.
It would then receive a new image each time the camera node publishes one.
However, this might be undesirable if
the executor only wants to capture an image every once in a while.
Instead of subscribing to the camera images topic,
we'll define a new service for the camera node.
Let's call this service capture-image.
The request message definition might be a custom message type called
exposure time and the response might be an image message.
The behavior executor node or any other node for that matter,
can issue a call to the capture images service with a given exposure time setting.
The camera node would then respond to the request
by sending a message containing the resulting image.